# Rouzbehani_FinalProject_AdvBiolDataAnalysis_2024
### Conda packages used: python3.9, pandas, sklearn-pandas, matplotlib, jupyter notebook

# Project Description
### Analyzing the effect of metadata variables (BMI and Age) on alpha diversity

### BMI metadata and alpha divertisy(shannon_1250) data are extracted from ag_map_with_alpha.txt then subsequently utilized in scatterplot visualiztion models. Additionally, age metadata is also extracted which is used to generate a visualization plot detailing the relationship between participants age and alpha diversity. Futhermore, a rarefaction curve of the average shannon diversity is produced by taking the mean of the shannon diversity value corresponding with the sample level, thus showing how human microbial community diversity is affected by sampling. In addition, a rarefaction curve of OTUs of sequencing depth of 1250 is generated showing the observed sequence variants at certain sampling levels. Maching learning analysis is then conducted where the data is split into training and testing data. The LinearRegression model is then trained on the data. MSE (mean squared error) and R2 score are then calulcated with there respective calculated output values shown. Correlation analysis involving Peason correlation coefficient and correlation matrices are generated using bmi and age metadata and observed_otu_1250 data. The results of the Pearson correlation determines if there is a linear relationship between the data and if the findings are statistically significant and the correlation matrix indicates the degree to which the data are linearly correlated with respect to eachother.   
